Selection Overview

In Magic, you use selection to isolate and operate on specific pieces of your layout. Here’s how you can use different selection commands effectively:
Loading and Initial Setup

    Load the Example Cell:
        To practice selection, start by loading the cell tut2b. You can do this with the command:

        lua

:load tut2b

If Magic is not open, start it with:

        magic tut2b

Basic Selection Commands

    Basic Selection (s):
        Command: s (macro for :select)
        Function: Selects material under the cursor. The selection expands to cover a rectangular area of the same material type.
        Example:
            Move the cursor over the upper portion of the L-shaped blue area.
            Press s. The box will jump to cover the vertical part of the L, highlighting it.
            The selection will show a thin white outline around the selected area.
        Expanding Selection:
            If you type s repeatedly without moving the cursor, each press expands the selection:
                The first s selects a rectangular region of the same material type.
                The second s selects a broader region, including all the material under the cursor, whether rectangular or not.
                The third s selects the net, encompassing all connected materials including the blue metal, red polysilicon, and any connecting contacts.

    Selecting More (S):
        Command: S (macro for :select more)
        Function: Adds to the current selection rather than replacing it.
        Example:
            Move the cursor over the vertical red bar on the right.
            Press S. The red bar will be added to your existing selection.
            You can press S multiple times to incrementally add more regions and nets to the selection.

Handling Accidental Selections

    Cell Selection:
        If you accidentally select a cell (like tut2b) instead of a region, simply undo the selection with :undo or the macro u.

Example Workflow

Here’s a step-by-step example to practice the selection process:

    Start with Selection:
        Load tut2b using :load tut2b.
        Move the cursor to the upper portion of the L-shaped blue area.

    Basic Selection:
        Press s to select a chunk of blue material.
        Observe the thin white outline around the selected blue area.
        Move the cursor to the vertical red bar on the right and press s to see the selection change to the red bar.

    Expand Selection:
        Move the cursor back to the blue L-shaped area.
        Press s three times:
            First s selects a rectangular blue chunk.
            Second s expands to include all blue material in the region.
            Third s selects the entire net, including connected materials.

    Add to Selection:
        Move the cursor to the vertical red bar.
        Press S to add the red bar to the current selection.
        Press S again to add more areas if needed.

    Undo if Necessary:
        If you select a cell by mistake, press u to undo the selection and try again. 
